"HTTP testing in R" book update (#110)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2021-02-02-http-testing-book/index.Rmd

We have updated the HTTP testing in R online book to make it a free, central reference for developers of R packages accessing web resources, to help them have a faster and more robust development.
Scott created the book a while back, as central documentation for his packages [crul](https://docs.ropensci.org/crul), [vcr](https://docs.ropensci.org/) and [webmockr](https://docs.ropensci.org/).
Maëlle got [funding from the R Consortium](https://www.r-consortium.org/projects/awarded-projects/2020-group-1#HTTP+testing+in+R+Book) to expand the scope of the book.
Thank you, R Consortium!
Thanks also to Scott, [Adam Sparks](/author/adam-sparks/), [Matthias Grenié](/author/matthias-grenié/) and [Neal Richardson](https://enpiar.com/) for contributing to the project proposal. Thanks also to [Gábor Csárdi](https://github.com/gaborcsardi) who was also consulted... even before he created webfakes!
Last but not least, thanks to recent readers of the book like [Dave Parr](https://www.daveparr.info/), [Lluís Revilla Sancho](https://llrs.dev/) and [Hugo Gruson](https://www.normalesup.org/~hgruson/) for useful feedback.

## What's between the covers?

> The book still has advanced content about webmockr and vcr, but these only come after new content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The book still has advanced content about webmockr and vcr, but now this comes after new content.
```

> * An introduction (how original), giving some basic information and resources suggestions around [HTTP in R](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/http-in-r-101.html) and [_graceful HTTP R packages_](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/graceful.html) as well as the reason why we need [special packages for HTTP testing](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/pkgs-testing-chapter.html).

Reviewer: Should the second link be italicized?

```suggestion
* An introduction (how original), giving some basic information and resource suggestions around [HTTP in R](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/http-in-r-101.html) and [graceful HTTP R packages](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/graceful.html) as well as the reason why we need [special packages for HTTP testing](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/pkgs-testing-chapter.html).
```

* An Advanced Topics section about topics transverse to all packages.
   * Making [real requests](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/real-requests-chapter.html);
   * [CRAN- (and Bioconductor) preparedness for your tests](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/cran-preparedness.html);
   * [Security](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/security-chapter.html);
   * [Faking HTTP errors](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/errors-chapter.html);
   * [Contributor friendliness](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/contributor-friendliness.html).

* A [conclusion](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/conclusion-4.html) (again, how original) underlining what the next steps are. In particular, we encourage you to read the docs of the HTTP package(s) you end up using. For [webmockr](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/mocking.html) and [vcr](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing/vcr-intro.html), these docs also live in the same book so you don't have far to go.

## Other technical details

> Whilst writing chapters Maëlle filled several docs and feature requests to vcr, httptest, webfakes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whilst writing chapters Maëlle filed several docs and feature requests to vcr, httptest, webfakes.
```

> All three maintainers were very cooperative and nice.

Reviewer: For some reason, "cooperative" has a slightly formal tone, I think receptive might be a nicer way of phrasing it. 

```suggestion
All three maintainers were very kind and receptive.
```

> * There was a recent tech note about vcr release, part of which is a consequence of the book update.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* There was a recent [tech note about vcr release](https://ropensci.org/technotes/2020/12/18/vcr-release/), part of which is a consequence of the book update.
```

* In httptest the new `httptest::with_mock_dir()` function was contributed as a result of Maëlle's work.
* In webfakes Maëlle suggested and helped develop the [OAuth2.0 apps](http://webfakes.r-lib.org/articles/oauth.html).

Besides, the book itself is an early adopter of a brand-new bookdown template by Hadley Wickham, `bookdown::bs4_book()`, which you might want to check out for your own bookish endeavors!
It's only available in the [development version of bookdown](https://github.com/rstudio/bookdown/) at the moment of writing, and there quite a [few features still in the work](https://github.com/rstudio/bookdown/issues?q=is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22bs4_book+%3Ahiking_boot%3A%22+).
As for deployment, we'd recommend looking at the [GitHub Actions workflow for the R packages book](https://github.com/hadley/r-pkgs/blob/master/.github/workflows/build-book.yaml) that we drew inspiration from.

## Further work and feedback request!

> While we are happy of the book current state, we are committed to updating and improving it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we are happy with our "HTTP testing in R" book, we are committed to updating and improving it!
```
